content/work/Nature-Morte.md, before:

+++
title = "Nature Morte"
description = "A red chew toy that any furry friend will enjoy, molded with our patented PennyPlastix technology to last through years of slobbery love."
date = 2023-06-22
draft = false

galleryImages = ["/images/2.png", "/images/11-tests.jpg", "/images/4.png", "/images/5.png", "/images/6.png", "/images/7.png", "/images/8.png"]
featuredImage = "/images/nature-morte/nm-hero.png"


customTitle = "Nature Morte (2023)"
medium = ["Photography", "Photogrammetry", "3D Print", "Multichannel Video-Installation", "Book"]
placedate = "Goethe-Institut, Sofia"
curator = "Hristo Kaloyanov"
categories = ["solo"]
+++

NATURE MORTE is a multimediaproject that plants the philosophical question in the ground - ona part of the country’s criticalinfrastructure, where access ishighly restricted. In an attempt tofind different approaches to reachthe excavation and its visualiza-tion, open data from satellite and geological surveys and measurements were used, through which the digital topography of the mines was built. Although the cosmic time of geoformation - the million-year superimposition of layers that proceeds in relative calm, where separate elements barely interact, there are also short periods of ruptures recorded in the layers. The excavation of rocks, clay, minerals, stones and ash unfolds the earth’s bowels, from where traces of long-sunken worlds are made visible. This is where ouroperational activity on the critical infrastructure of the Maritza-Iztokmines begins.

.
### Critique
- “[Towards a geosophy of the catastrophe”](https://culturecenter-su.org/philip-stoilov-nature-morte/)
Filip Stoilov St. Kliment Ohridski University Culture Center
- “[Kintsugi. Dealing with trauma in the summer of 2023](https://culturecenter-su.org/kritika-x-3-june2023-boyana-dzhikova/)”
Boyana Djikova, St.Kliment Ohridski University Culture Center
- “[Observing the Geotraumatic Lines of Flight On Terrain](https://culturecenter-su.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/programme-2023.pdf)”
Hristo Kaloyanov report for the conference “CULTURE, INFRASTRUCTURE, MOBILITY” hosted by Leibniz Institute and CultureCenter of Sofia University

### Coverage
[Bulgarian National Television](https://bnt.bg/news/izlozhbata-nature-morte-v-gyote-institut-v347709-319285news.html)
[Bulgarian National Radio](https://bnr.bg/horizont/post/101854514/nature-morte-tvorcheski-pogled-kam-vagledobivnata-industria)
Bloomberg TV
[Bulgarian Telegraph Agency](https://www.bta.bg/bg/news/lik/491946-diskusiya-na-tema-vaglishtna-tropika-razglezhda-dobiva-na-ruda-i-kak-vdahnovya)
[Impressio](https://impressio.dir.bg/photography/vaglishtna-tropika-v-gyote-institut-i-ko-op)
[Boy Scout Magazine](https://boyscoutmag.com/2023/07/kakvo-da-pravim-v-sofia-prez-july-2/)
[Artnews Cafe](https://openartfiles.bg/openartfiles.bg/public/bg/artnewscafebulletin)

Commit message:

added galllery images, header images and header videos to all, to add names and descriptions

content/work/Nature-Morte.md, after:

+++
title = "Nature Morte"
customTitle = "Nature Morte (2023)"
description = "NATURE MORTE is a multimediaproject that plants the philosophical question in the ground - on a part of the country’s criticalinfrastructure, where access is highly restricted."
date = 2023-06-22
featuredImage = "/images/nature-morte/nm-hero.webp"
featuredVideo = ["/images/nature-morte/nm-herovid.mp4"]
draft = false

galleryImages = ["/images/nature-morte/nm-1.webp", "/images/nature-morte/nm-2.webp", "/images/nature-morte/nm-3.webp", "/images/nature-morte/nm-4.webp", "/images/nature-morte/nm-5.webp", "/images/nature-morte/nmbook-1.webp", "/images/nature-morte/nmbook-2.webp", "/images/nature-morte/nmbook-3.webp", "/images/nature-morte/nmbook-4.webp", "/images/nature-morte/nmbook-5.webp"]

imgNames = ["Untitled", "Untitled", "Untitled", "Untitled", "Untitled", "Untitled", "Untitled", "Untitled", "Untitled", "Untitled", "Untitled", "Untitled"]

medium = ["Photography", "Photogrammetry", "3D Print", "Multichannel Video-Installation", "Book"]
placedate = "Goethe-Institut, Sofia - 22.06–30.07.2023"
curator = "Hristo Kaloyanov"
categories = ["solo"]


+++

NATURE MORTE is a multimediaproject that plants the philosophical question in the ground - on a part of the country’s criticalinfrastructure, where access is highly restricted. In an attempt to find different approaches to reach the excavation and its visualization, open data from satellite and geological surveys and measurements were used, through which the digital topography of the mines was built. 

Although the cosmic time of geoformation - the million-year superimposition of layers that proceeds in relative calm, where separate elements barely interact, there are also short periods of ruptures recorded in the layers. The excavation of rocks, clay, minerals, stones and ash unfolds the earth’s bowels, from where traces of long-sunken worlds are made visible. This is where ouroperational activity on the critical infrastructure of the Maritza-Iztokmines begins.

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

### Other Showings
[Screening of NATURE MORTE at VideoArt Garden](https://timisoara2023.eu/ro/evenimente/coatings-videoart-garden/), 14-17 Sept 23 | Timisoara, Romania

### Coverage
[Bulgarian National Television](https://bnt.bg/news/izlozhbata-nature-morte-v-gyote-institut-v347709-319285news.html)
[Bulgarian National Radio](https://bnr.bg/horizont/post/101854514/nature-morte-tvorcheski-pogled-kam-vagledobivnata-industria)
Bloomberg TV
[Bulgarian Telegraph Agency](https://www.bta.bg/bg/news/lik/491946-diskusiya-na-tema-vaglishtna-tropika-razglezhda-dobiva-na-ruda-i-kak-vdahnovya)
[Impressio](https://impressio.dir.bg/photography/vaglishtna-tropika-v-gyote-institut-i-ko-op)
[Boy Scout Magazine](https://boyscoutmag.com/2023/07/kakvo-da-pravim-v-sofia-prez-july-2/)
[Artnews Cafe](https://openartfiles.bg/openartfiles.bg/public/bg/artnewscafebulletin)

### Critique
- “[Towards a geosophy of the catastrophe”](https://culturecenter-su.org/philip-stoilov-nature-morte/)
Filip Stoilov St. Kliment Ohridski University Culture Center
- “[Kintsugi. Dealing with trauma in the summer of 2023](https://culturecenter-su.org/kritika-x-3-june2023-boyana-dzhikova/)”
Boyana Djikova, St.Kliment Ohridski University Culture Center
- “[Observing the Geotraumatic Lines of Flight On Terrain](https://culturecenter-su.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/programme-2023.pdf)”
Hristo Kaloyanov report for the conference “CULTURE, INFRASTRUCTURE, MOBILITY” hosted by Leibniz Institute and CultureCenter of Sofia University
