content/work/Cards/index.en.md, before:

+++
title = 'Postcards and Contraband'
date = 2023-09-07
description = "An examining a work archive of the Bуlgarian Customs Agency, Directorate for Combating Drug Trafficking from 1975-1985."

type = "artwork"
medium = ["conspiracy map of declassified documents", "archival footage", "book", "duo-channel video installation"]
placedate = "ReBonkers, Varna - 07-21.09.2023"
curator = "Hristo Kaloyanov"
collaborators = "Aaron Roth"
categories = ["collab"]

imgNames = ["Untitled (2023)", ""]
imgDescrps = ["Dual-channel CRT installation, featuring found documents and photography (voice over Emilia Toncheva), 23 minutes, on the photo: exhibition view with an ex-head of Varna’s Sea Port Customs", ]
+++

"Postcards and Contraband" begins by examining a work archive of the Bulgarian Customs Agency, Directorate for Combating Drug Trafficking from 1975-1985. The service notes, photographs, negatives, summaries and reports found mark part of the routine of the Customs Agency work, such as inspection and regulation of transit, but also the diplomatic image the Customs Agency must maintain to the international community.

The leading suspicion here is that the found archives give only a partial insight into the organized "hidden transit" - a term behind which the communist government of the People's Republic of Bulgaria concealed the smuggling trade carried out by the State Security through commercial enterprises and organizations. These traces are fragments of a wide-ranging system of customs regulations, trade routes, economic interests, international agreements, and geopolitical particularities. Accompanying official documents, including transcripts of diplomatic encounters, attestations, in-state reports, and international addresses, underscore the hidden nature of the archive. These documents are intended for internal circulation within government departments whose primary business is to detect smuggling and maintain state-regulated 'hidden transit'. This double diplomacy of concealment is also imprinted in the technique of documenting smuggling activities. They simultaneously expose the hidden cargo, but in other cases facilitate its passage. Thus, the official documents and photographs found on the periphery of the state archive and overlooked by the institutions of memory exist as a negative image of history.

Archaeography is the technique through which the negative image of history is to be revealed in the present. The hidden labour of archaeography is in marking and tracing the unexplained or set-aside traces of memory that maintain their signifying relation to the present. Rather than reaffirming the static nature of state memory, archaeography seeks to reconcile the implicit crisis of the present with the collapse of contemporary memory institutions.

The contraband that should remain hidden by design, and the organization behind it, remain only partially captured to this day. Could these testimonies, then, as the postcard is a well-known and well-researched artifact of ephemeral intimately personal memory, reveal what has become of state memory? Hence, "Postcards and Contraband" traces various scars of both the border, its customs and passing goods, and the memory that the archival image transits, as active agency in the present.
<!-- add other header and the talk and after that the showing at sofia, say who the talk was with -->

&nbsp;

Copies of the accompanying book, designed by [Zahary Dimitrov](zahari.xyz) can be purchased at: [The Kopy Shop](https://www.thekopy.shop/product/%D0%BA%D0%B0%D1%80%D1%82%D0%B8%D1%87%D0%BA%D0%B8-%D0%B8-%D0%BA%D0%BE%D0%BD%D1%82%D1%80%D0%B0%D0%B1%D0%B0%D0%BD%D0%B4%D0%B0)

&nbsp;

### Coverage
[Bulgarian Telegraph Agency](https://www.bta.bg/bg/news/lik/519175-kontrabandata-prez-sotsializma-izsledva-ekspozitsiya-podredena-vav-varnenskiya-), [Bulgarian National Radio](https://bnr.bg/varna/post/101874963/izlobn-razkriva-tainite-na-kontrabandata-ot-vremeto-na-socializma), [Culture News](https://kulturni-novini.info/sections/2/news/37584-kartichki-i-kontrabanda-izlozhba-na-aaron-rot-i-nikola-stoyanov), [Parallel43](https://parallel43.bg/patyat-na-skritiya-tranzit-v-izlozhbata-kartichki-i-kontrabanda), [News Paper Utro](https://utroruse.com/article/970557/)

&nbsp;

Voice work by Emilia Toncheva, event photography Boris Vasilev. The project was supported by Varna’s Municipal Culture Fund and ReBonkers, Varna.

Commit message:

added eng info to cards and fixed, description for lightbox

content/work/Cards/index.en.md, after:

+++
title = 'Postcards and Contraband'
date = 2023-09-07
description = "An examining a work archive of the Bуlgarian Customs Agency, Directorate for Combating Drug Trafficking from 1975-1985."

type = "artwork"
medium = ["conspiracy map of declassified documents", "archival footage", "book", "duo-channel video installation"]
placedate = "ReBonkers, Varna - 07-21.09.2023"
curator = "Hristo Kaloyanov"
collaborators = "Aaron Roth"
categories = ["collab"]

imgNames = ["Embargo Dystopia (2023)", "Embargo Dystopia (2023)", "Embargo Dystopia (2023)", "Embargo Dystopia (2023)", "Untitled (2023)", "Untitled (2023)", "Untitled (2023)", "Untitled (2023)", "Untitled (2023)", "Space Frame by Aron Roth (2023)", "Chivas Royal Salute by Aron Roth (2023)", "Postcards and Contraband book"]
imgDescrps = ["two 120x90cm cardboard conspiracy walls, projection mapping, declassified documents, newspaper clippings, maps, assasination photography", "two 120x90cm cardboard conspiracy walls, projection mapping, declassified documents, newspaper clippings, maps, assasination photography", "exhibition gues reading declassified DEA document on Bulgarian state drug trafficking", "Captagon pill (top-left), logo of State Secret Services during Communism (center), logo for international customs cooperation (top-right)", "Dual-channel CRT installation, featuring found documents and photography (voice over Emilia Toncheva), 23 minutes, on the photo: exhibition view with an ex-head of Varna’s Sea Port Customs", "found personal and operational archive of Directorate for Combating Drug Trafficking agent", "more documents and photographs of drug and currency trafficking", "materail from Bulgarian Customs Agency archive", "post-cards found  in personal archive of agent", "oil on canvas and metal frame 130x100cm (metal structure found on almost all boarder check points in the world)", "oil on canvas 50x50cm (item comanly traded for favors at boarder checks during communist times)", "inside view of the accompaning book"]

sound = "Yan Lechev"
photo = "Boris Vasilev"
+++

"Postcards and Contraband" begins by examining a work archive of the Bulgarian Customs Agency, Directorate for Combating Drug Trafficking from 1975-1985. The service notes, photographs, negatives, summaries and reports found mark part of the routine of the Customs Agency work, such as inspection and regulation of transit, but also the diplomatic image the Customs Agency must maintain to the international community.

The leading suspicion here is that the found archives give only a partial insight into the organized "hidden transit" - a term behind which the communist government of the People's Republic of Bulgaria concealed the smuggling trade carried out by the State Security through commercial enterprises and organizations. These traces are fragments of a wide-ranging system of customs regulations, trade routes, economic interests, international agreements, and geopolitical particularities. Accompanying official documents, including transcripts of diplomatic encounters, attestations, in-state reports, and international addresses, underscore the hidden nature of the archive. These documents are intended for internal circulation within government departments whose primary business is to detect smuggling and maintain state-regulated 'hidden transit'. This double diplomacy of concealment is also imprinted in the technique of documenting smuggling activities. They simultaneously expose the hidden cargo, but in other cases facilitate its passage. Thus, the official documents and photographs found on the periphery of the state archive and overlooked by the institutions of memory exist as a negative image of history.

Archaeography is the technique through which the negative image of history is to be revealed in the present. The hidden labour of archaeography is in marking and tracing the unexplained or set-aside traces of memory that maintain their signifying relation to the present. Rather than reaffirming the static nature of state memory, archaeography seeks to reconcile the implicit crisis of the present with the collapse of contemporary memory institutions.

The contraband that should remain hidden by design, and the organization behind it, remain only partially captured to this day. Could these testimonies, then, as the postcard is a well-known and well-researched artifact of ephemeral intimately personal memory, reveal what has become of state memory? Hence, "Postcards and Contraband" traces various scars of both the border, its customs and passing goods, and the memory that the archival image transits, as active agency in the present.
<!-- add other header and the talk and after that the showing at sofia, say who the talk was with -->

&nbsp;

Copies of the accompanying book, designed by [Zahary Dimitrov](zahari.xyz) can be purchased at: [The Kopy Shop](https://www.thekopy.shop/product/%D0%BA%D0%B0%D1%80%D1%82%D0%B8%D1%87%D0%BA%D0%B8-%D0%B8-%D0%BA%D0%BE%D0%BD%D1%82%D1%80%D0%B0%D0%B1%D0%B0%D0%BD%D0%B4%D0%B0)

&nbsp;

### Coverage
[Bulgarian Telegraph Agency](https://www.bta.bg/bg/news/lik/519175-kontrabandata-prez-sotsializma-izsledva-ekspozitsiya-podredena-vav-varnenskiya-), [Bulgarian National Radio](https://bnr.bg/varna/post/101874963/izlobn-razkriva-tainite-na-kontrabandata-ot-vremeto-na-socializma), [Culture News](https://kulturni-novini.info/sections/2/news/37584-kartichki-i-kontrabanda-izlozhba-na-aaron-rot-i-nikola-stoyanov), [Parallel43](https://parallel43.bg/patyat-na-skritiya-tranzit-v-izlozhbata-kartichki-i-kontrabanda), [News Paper Utro](https://utroruse.com/article/970557/)

&nbsp;

Voice work by Emilia Toncheva, event photography Boris Vasilev. The project was supported by Varna’s Municipal Culture Fund and ReBonkers, Varna.
